## Goroutines

A _goroutine_ is a lightweight thread managed by the Go runtime.

`go f(x, y, z)`

starts a new goroutine running

`f(x, y, z)
`
The evaluation of `f`, `x`, `y`, and `z` happens in the current goroutine and the execution of `f` happens in the new goroutine.

Goroutines run in the same address space, so access to shared memory must be synchronized. The [`sync`](https://go.dev/pkg/sync/) package provides useful primitives, although you won't need them much in Go as there are other primitives. (See the next slide.)

## Channels

Channels are a typed conduit through which you can send and receive values with the channel operator, `<-`.

ch <- v    // Send v to channel ch.
v := <-ch  // Receive from ch, and
           // assign value to v.

(The data flows in the direction of the arrow.)

Like maps and slices, channels must be created before use:

ch := make(chan int)

By default, sends and receives block until the other side is ready. This allows goroutines to synchronize without explicit locks or condition variables.

The example code sums the numbers in a slice, distributing the work between two goroutines. Once both goroutines have completed their computation, it calculates the final result.

```go
func sum(s []int, c chan int) {
	sum := 0
	for _, v := range s {
		sum += v
	}
	c <- sum // send sum to c
}

func main() {
	s := []int{7, 2, 8, -9, 4, 0}

	c := make(chan int)
	go sum(s[:len(s)/2], c)
	go sum(s[len(s)/2:], c)
	x, y := <-c, <-c // receive from c

	fmt.Println(x, y, x+y)
	}
//-5 17 12
```

## Range and Close

A sender can `close` a channel to indicate that no more values will be sent. Receivers can test whether a channel has been closed by assigning a second parameter to the receive expression: after

`v, ok := <-ch`

`ok` is `false` if there are no more values to receive and the channel is closed.

The loop `for i := range c` receives values from the channel repeatedly until it is closed.

**Note:** Only the sender should close a channel, never the receiver. Sending on a closed channel will cause a panic.

**Another note:** Channels aren't like files; you don't usually need to close them. Closing is only necessary when the receiver must be told there are no more values coming, such as to terminate a `range` loop.

```go
func fibonacci(n int, c chan int) {
	x, y := 0, 1
	for i := 0; i < n; i++ {
		c <- x
		x, y = y, x+y
	}
	close(c)
}

func main() {
	c := make(chan int, 10)
	go fibonacci(cap(c), c)
	for i := range c {
		fmt.Println(i)
	}
}
```

## Select

The `select` statement lets a goroutine wait on multiple communication operations.

A `select` blocks until one of its cases can run, then it executes that case. It chooses one at random if multiple are ready.

```
func fibonacci(c, quit chan int) {
	x, y := 0, 1
	for {
		select {
		case c <- x:
			x, y = y, x+y
		case <-quit:
			fmt.Println("quit")
			return
		}
	}
}

func main() {
	c := make(chan int)
	quit := make(chan int)
	go func() {
		for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
			fmt.Println(<-c)
		}
		quit <- 0
	}()
	fibonacci(c, quit)
}
```

## Default Selection

The `default` case in a `select` is run if no other case is ready.

Use a `default` case to try a send or receive without blocking:

```
select {
case i := <-c:
    // use i
default:
    // receiving from c would block
}
```

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"time"
)

func main() {
	tick := time.Tick(100 * time.Millisecond)
	boom := time.After(500 * time.Millisecond)
	for {
		select {
		case <-tick:
			fmt.Println("tick.")
		case <-boom:
			fmt.Println("BOOM!")
			return
		default:
			fmt.Println("    .")
			time.Sleep(50 * time.Millisecond)
		}
	}
}
```

```
    .    .
tick.
    .
    .
tick.
    .
    .    .
tick.
    .
tick.
    .
    .
BOOM!
```